docs(tutorial): how to create a custom openWRT image for SCW Instances (#939)
scaleway/docs-content: tutorials/create-openwrt-image-for-scaleway/index.mdx

    qemu-img resize openwrt-22.03.2-x86-64-generic-ext4-combined-efi.qcow2 1G
    ```

3. Mount the QCOW2 image as a device

    ```
    modprobe nbd
    qemu-nbd -c /dev/nbd0 openwrt-22.03.2-x86-64-generic-ext4-combined-efi.qcow2
    ```

    <Message type="important">

    Conversion and resizing creates errors in the partition table which are fixed when re-writing it using fdisk. Plus, to resize the main partition, the partition number must be found out.

    To print and fix partition table, do:

    ```
    echo 'p\nw\n' | fdisk /dev/nbd0
    ```

    </Message>

4. Resize the main partition to fit the available space (partition number 2 in the example above):

    ```
    growpart /dev/nbd0 2
    resize2fs /dev/nbd0p2
    ```

## Edit the image content

<Message type="note">

Network configuration and specifics actions may need to be configured in order to access the image when run in Scaleway Instances.

For example:

* In Scaleway Instances, the first NIC (e.g. `eth0`) must be associated to the public network and need to be configured (For exapmple using: Cloud-init, DHCP, ...)

> * If the image provides a GUI, it may need to be configured to allow access from public interface (Are specific ports or firewall rules required?)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If the image provides a GUI, it may need to be configured to allow access from public interface (are specific ports or firewall rules required?)
```

> * How to manage the the SSH access (Set user password or configre SSH keys?)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* How to manage the the SSH access (set user password or configure SSH keys?)
```

</Message>

1. Mount the image:

    ```
    mkdir -p /mount/temp
    mount /dev/nbd0p2 /mount/temp
    ```

>     OpenWRT need two interfaces to work (WAN and LAN). But a default Instance only provide one interface. We are going to use the dummy module to add an interface.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    OpenWRT needs two interfaces to work (WAN and LAN). But a default Instance only provide one interface. We are going to use the dummy module to add an interface.
```

> 2. Download the needed package

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Download the package.
```

    ```
    curl -sSL -o /mount/temp/kmod-dummy_5.10.146-1_x86_64.ipk https://downloads.openwrt.org/releases/22.03.2/targets/x86/64/packages/kmod-dummy_5.10.146-1_x86_64.ipk
    ```

> 3. Chroot in the image

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Chroot in the image.
```

    ```
    chroot /mount/temp/ /bin/ash
    ```

> 4. Install the package

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Install the package.
```

    ```
    mkdir -p /tmp/lock
    opkg install kmod-dummy_5.10.146-1_x86_64.ipk
    rm -rf /tmp/* kmod-dummy_5.10.146-1_x86_64.ipk
    ```

5. Set the root password, whilst in the chroot. In OpenWRT, it is used by the web interface for login.

    ```
    passwd
    ```

> 6. Configure the web server ports and redirect `http` to `https` using the `uci` CLI of OpenWRT

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Configure the web server ports and redirect `http` to `https` using the `uci` CLI of OpenWRT.
```

    ```
    uci del uhttpd.main.listen_http
    uci add_list uhttpd.main.listen_http='0.0.0.0:8080'
    uci del uhttpd.main.listen_https
    uci add_list uhttpd.main.listen_https='0.0.0.0:8443'
    uci set uhttpd.main.redirect_https=1
    uci commit uhttpd
    ```

> 7. Disable password auth in SSH

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. Disable password authentication in SSH.
```

    ```
    uci set dropbear.@dropbear[0].PasswordAuth=off
    uci set dropbear.@dropbear[0].RootPasswordAuth=off
    uci commit dropbear
    ```
### Configure SSH access

> Since we have disabled password auth in SSH, we need a way to load SSH keys when running.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since we have disabled password authentication in SSH, we need a way to load SSH keys when running.
```

> In this tutorial, we do not setup Cloud-init for this but use the same magic ip mechanism to get the keys.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this tutorial we do not set up Cloud-init, but use the same magic IP mechanism to get the keys.
```

1. Create the `authorized_keys` file:

    ```
    touch /etc/dropbear/authorized_keys
    chmod 600 /etc/dropbear/authorized_keys
    ```

2. Create the fetch script:

    ```sh
    cat <<EOF>/etc/init.d/fetch_ssh_keys
    #!/bin/sh /etc/rc.common

    START=97

    start() {
        echo -e "\nFetching SSH keys from Scaleway Metadata" > /dev/console
        wget -qO- http://169.254.42.42/conf | egrep 'SSH_PUBLIC_KEYS_._KEY' | cut -d'=' -f2- | sed "s/'//g" > /etc/dropbear/authorized_keys
    }

    reload() {
        start
    }
    EOF
    chmod +x /etc/init.d/fetch_ssh_keys
    ```

> 3. Add the script to rc.d:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Add the script to `rc.d`.
```

    ```sh
    ln -s /etc/init.d/fetch_ssh_keys /etc/rc.d/S97fetch_ssh_keys
    ```

> 4. Exit the chroot

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Exit the chroot.
```

    </Message>

2. Add firewall rules to redirect WAN ports to LAN ports. This is required, as accessing the UI and SSH in OpenWRT is normally only possible through the LAN interface.

    ```
    cat <<EOF>>/mount/temp/etc/config/firewall
    # port redirect UI ACCESS and SSH
    config redirect
    option name             HTTP-UI
    option src              wan
    option src_dport        8080
    option desti            lan
    option dest_ip          192.168.0.1
    option dest_port        8080
    option proto            tcp

    config redirect
    option name             HTTPS-UI
    option src              wan
    option src_dport        8443
    option dest             lan
    option dest_ip          192.168.0.1
    option dest_port        8443
    option proto            tcp

    config redirect
    option name             SSH
    option src              wan
    option src_dport        22
    option dest             lan
    option dest_ip          192.168.0.1
    option dest_port        22
    option proto            tcp
    EOF
    ```

> 3. Unmont the image container to finish editing its content:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Unmount the image container to finish editing its content.
```

    ```
    umount /mount/temp
    qemu-nbd -d /dev/nbd0
    ```

## Import the image

> You can use the Scaleway console or your favorite S3 CLI to upload in a bucket.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the Scaleway console or your favorite S3 CLI to upload objects into a bucket.
```

> In this example, the [AWS CLI](https://www.scaleway.com/en/docs/storage/object/api-cli/object-storage-aws-cli/) is used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example, we use the [AWS CLI](https://www.scaleway.com/en/docs/storage/object/api-cli/object-storage-aws-cli/).
```

1. Import the image into your bucket: 
```
aws s3 cp openwrt-22.03.2-x86-64-generic-ext4-combined-efi.qcow2 s3://my-import-bucket/openwrt.qcow2
```

> 2. Trigger the import of the image as a snapshot in one of the region where the bucket is, using [SCW CLI](https://github.com/scaleway/scaleway-cli):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Trigger the import of the image as a snapshot in one of the regions where the bucket is located, using [SCW CLI](https://github.com/scaleway/scaleway-cli):
```

```
scw instance snapshot create zone=fr-par-1 name=openwrt volume-type=unified bucket=my-import-bucket key=openwrt.qcow2
```

3. Create the corresponding Instance image:

```
scw instance image create zone=fr-par-1 name=openwrt arch=x86_64 snapshot-id=$(scw instance snapshot list | grep -m1 openwrt | awk '{print $1}')
```

## Testing and troubleshooting the image

1. Create an Instance using the snapshot image:

```
scw instance server create type=DEV1-S zone=fr-par-1 name=scw-openwrt ip=new image=$(scw instance image list | grep -m1 openwrt | awk '{print $1}')
```

2. Troubleshoot the boot behaviour and configuration using the console of your Instance:

```
scw instance server console zone=fr-par-1 $(scw instance server list | grep -m1 scw-openwrt | awk '{print $1}')
```

> 3. Exit the console using `Ctrl+q`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Exit the console using `Ctrl+q`.
```

> You can access the web console of OpenWRT using `https://<public ip of instance>:8443`

Author: ```suggestion
<Message type="important">

You can access the web console of OpenWRT using `https://<public ip of instance>:8443`

</Message>
```

## Note on support

> Scaleway can not provide support for these kind of images and building/running those is the responsability of the user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Scaleway does provide support for these kind of images. The building and running of these images is managed by the users themselves.
```
